content/blog/resume/index.md, before:

---
title: "Frontend Developer Resume Tips"
date: "2020-09-25T13:37:37+00:00"
updatedOnDate: "2020-09-25T13:37:37+00:00"
image: img.jpg
---

A resume is a marketing document. Its goal is to sell you as a professional. It should show that you can code, that you're smart, and care about your craft.

The last time I needed to create a resume was about ten years ago when I was looking for my first job as a frontend developer. Although I've changed a couple of companies since then and I had a handful of freelance clients, I've never actively looked for a job. I was super lucky to have a network of brilliant former colleagues, who asked if I'd like to join their companies or if I'd like to do some freelancing for them.

But for several reasons, now I have to do what I have very little experience with: to create a good resume and go through a bunch of technical interviews. 😬 So I've decided to collect some important bits and pieces about the resume creation part. Here they are:

### 1. Target Your Resume to Each Job Description

If you apply for ten jobs, you should send ten different resumes, each targeted to reflect the job description. You must only tell the truth, of course, but that's important to prioritize what will land you a job interview over what will not.

It could be useful to have a detailed "main" resume, which is the foundation of all the custom ones.

### 2. Keep It To One or Two Pages

A lengthy resume is not a reflection of having lots of experience - it's a reflection of not prioritizing what's important. Most people don't like to read long texts. And some recruiters just refuse to read resumes that are more than two pages long.

You can always create an online portfolio with lots of details to supplement your resume.

### 3. List Only Relevant Information

For example, don't include hobbies unless they're relevant to the job you're applying for. Such extra information won't make any difference during the initial screening anyway. And on the later stages of the hiring process, recruiters will probably find your social media profiles to get the idea of what makes you tick.

### 4. Place The Most Important Information First

List your contact details first, followed by your relevant work experience. Work experience is usually more valuable than formal or informal education.

### 5. Choose Your Keywords

Most of the companies nowadays use computerized resume scanners of some kind. And if you don't optimize your resume to include the keywords from the job description, such scanners will probably reject your application before it even makes it into human hands.

### 6. Use Productivity Words, Avoid Empty Phrases

Use words like "coded", "implemented", "developed", "delivered", "launched", etc. Avoid words like "participated", "been a part of", as well as "dynamic", "self-motivated", "results-driven", etc.

### 7. Show The Measurable Impact You've Made

Like "boosted mobile traffic by 45% with my redesign". To be honest, I struggle with this tip the most. Such details are very easy to forget if you're not thinking about your resume while working on an exciting project for many years. I'll definitely keep it in mind in the future and make notes of achievements like this.

### 8. Don't Include A Photo

As well as age, marital status, nationality, etc. - anything that can potentially create legal liabilities for the company. There's a risk that a resume with such information will go straight to a bin.

### 9. Use Simple Design and Consistent Formatting

Your resume will probably go through a bunch of automated tools and computerized resume scanners. To be safe, use only ASCII characters, don't format your resume with tables or a certain number of spaces to align the items. Otherwise, your resume might look like an unreadable mess when it makes it into human hands.

At the same time, hey, you're a frontend developer! That's your job to make the content look nice, be well-spaced, readable, and breathable. And it might help if your resume has a fun, creative design that stands out.

### 10. Spell Check and Ask Someone to Proofread

Spell check, grammar check, and style check!

A good programmer should be detail-oriented, and a typo is a huge red flag. Some people will throw out your resume if you're misspelling things. So get at least one native speaker to proofread your resume.

Commit message:

blog(resume): some text changes, add the image

content/blog/resume/index.md, after:

---
title: "Frontend Developer Resume Tips"
date: "2020-09-25T13:37:37+00:00"
updatedOnDate: "2020-09-25T13:37:37+00:00"
image: img.jpg
---

A resume is a marketing document. Its goal is to sell you as a professional. It should show that you can code, that you're smart, and that you care about your craft. Here's a check-list I've created for myself:

### 1. Target Your Resume to Each Job Description

If you apply for ten jobs, you should send ten different resumes, each targeted to reflect the job description. You must only tell the truth, of course, but that's important to prioritize what will land you a job interview over what will not.

It could be useful to have a detailed "base" resume, which is the foundation of all the custom ones.

### 2. Keep It To One or Two Pages

A lengthy resume is not a reflection of having lots of experience - it's a reflection of not prioritizing what's important. Most people don't like to read long texts. And some recruiters just refuse to read resumes that are more than two pages long.

You can always create an online portfolio with lots of details to supplement your resume.

### 3. List Only Relevant Information

For example, don't include hobbies unless they're relevant to the job you're applying for. Such extra information won't make any difference during the initial screening anyway. And on the later stages of the hiring process, recruiters will probably find your social media profiles to get the idea of what makes you tick.

### 4. Place The Most Important Information First

List your contact details first, followed by your relevant work experience. Work experience is usually more valuable than formal or informal education.

### 5. Choose Your Keywords

Most of the companies nowadays use computerized resume scanners of some kind. And if you don't optimize your resume to include the keywords from the job description, such scanners will probably reject your application before it even makes it into human hands.

### 6. Use Productivity Words, Avoid Empty Phrases

Use words like "coded", "implemented", "developed", "delivered", "launched", etc. Avoid words like "participated", "been a part of", as well as "dynamic", "self-motivated", "results-driven", "eager to learn", etc.

### 7. Show The Measurable Impact You've Made

Like "boosted mobile traffic by 45% with the redesign". To be honest, I struggle with this tip the most. Such details are very easy to forget if you're not thinking about your resume while working on an exciting project for many years. I'll definitely keep it in mind in the future and make notes of achievements like this.

### 8. Don't Include A Photo

As well as age, marital status, nationality, etc. - anything that can potentially create legal liabilities for the company. There's a risk that a resume with such information will go straight to a bin.

### 9. Use Simple Design and Consistent Formatting

Your resume will probably go through a bunch of automated tools and computerized resume scanners. To be safe, use only ASCII characters, don't format your resume with tables or a certain number of spaces to align the items. Otherwise, your resume might look like an unreadable mess when it makes it into human hands.

At the same time, hey, you're a frontend developer! That's your job to make the content look nice, be well-spaced, readable, and breathable. And it might help if your resume has a fun, creative design that stands out.

### 10. Spell Check and Ask Someone to Proofread

Spell check, grammar check, and style check!

A good programmer should be detail-oriented, and a typo is a huge red flag. Some people will throw out your resume if you're misspelling things. So get at least one native speaker to proofread your resume.

### Useful Articles

- [Ten Tips for a (Slightly) Less Awful Resume](http://steve-yegge.blogspot.com/2007/09/ten-tips-for-slightly-less-awful-resume.html)
