content/blog/names/index.md, before:

---
title: "Clean JavaScript Code: Names"
date: "2020-07-13T15:14:46+00:00"
updatedOnDate: "2020-07-13T15:14:46+00:00"
image: img.jpg
---

This article is a part of the series [My Principles For Writing Clean JavaScript Code](https://anastasiya.dev/clean-js-code/).

Most of the principles below are not language-specific, although I use JavaScript for the code examples.

In many examples, I use the code from [clean-code-javascript](https://github.com/ryanmcdermott/clean-code-javascript). It's a fantastic resource for learning how to write clean code in JavaScript — highly recommended!

### Introduction

Choosing a good name can take time and effort. But it's totally worth it. Proper names make it much easier to maintain code. If a name requires a comment - it's a bad name.

### Main Principles

#### 1. Use meaningful and pronounceable names

Bad:

```javascript
const yyyymmdstr = moment().format("YYYY/MM/DD")
```

Good:

```javascript
const currentDate = moment().format("YYYY/MM/DD")
```

#### 2. Use searchable names

Bad:

```javascript
const n = "Anastasiya"
```

Good:

```javascript
const firstName = "Anastasiya"
```

#### 3. Name constants that are meaningful for understanding the code

Bad:

```javascript
setTimeout(blastOff, 86400000)
```

Good:

```javascript
const MILLISECONDS_IN_A_DAY = 86_400_000
setTimeout(blastOff, MILLISECONDS_IN_A_DAY)
```

#### 4. Function names should say what they do

Bad:

```javascript
function addToDate(date, month) {
  // ...
}

const date = new Date()

// It's hard to tell from the function name what is added
addToDate(date, 1)
```

Good:

```javascript
function addMonthToDate(month, date) {
  // ...
}

const date = new Date()
addMonthToDate(1, date)
```

#### 5. Don't use names which vary in small ways.

Bad:

```javascript
getActiveUser()
getActiveUsers()
getActiveUserInfo()
```

#### 6. Avoid mental mapping

In most cases, a single letter name is a poor choice. The only exception is a loop counter if its scope is very small.

Bad:

```javascript
const locations = ["Austin", "New York", "San Francisco"]
locations.forEach(l => {
  doStuff()
  doSomeOtherStuff()
  // ...
  // ...
  // ...
  // Wait, what is `l` for again?
  dispatch(l)
})
```

Good:

```javascript
const locations = ["Austin", "New York", "San Francisco"]
locations.forEach(location => {
  doStuff()
  doSomeOtherStuff()
  // ...
  // ...
  // ...
  dispatch(location)
})
```

#### 7. Don't use lower-case "L" or uppercase "o" in names

They can be easily confused with one and zero, respectively.

Bad:

```javascript
const l = 1
const O = 0
```

#### 8. Avoid noise words

For example, never use "variable" in a variable name. At best, it just adds noise. Quite often, it can lie and mislead.

Bad:

```javascript
const nameString = "Anastasiya"
```

Good:

```javascript
const firstName = "Anastasiya"
```

### Conclusion

Names should reveal intent, be easy to read and discuss, be searchable, and shouldn't be confusing and misleading. Quite simple, right? Not always. But that's super important to do it properly.

Commit message:

blog(posts): move the disclaimer to the end of the blog posts

content/blog/names/index.md, after:

---
title: "Clean JavaScript Code: Names"
date: "2020-07-13T15:14:46+00:00"
updatedOnDate: "2020-07-13T15:14:46+00:00"
image: img.jpg
---

Choosing a good name can take time and effort. But it's totally worth it. Proper names make it much easier to maintain code. If a name requires a comment - it's a bad name.

### Main Principles

#### 1. Use meaningful and pronounceable names

Bad:

```javascript
const yyyymmdstr = moment().format("YYYY/MM/DD")
```

Good:

```javascript
const currentDate = moment().format("YYYY/MM/DD")
```

#### 2. Use searchable names

Bad:

```javascript
const n = "Anastasiya"
```

Good:

```javascript
const firstName = "Anastasiya"
```

#### 3. Name constants that are meaningful for understanding the code

Bad:

```javascript
setTimeout(blastOff, 86400000)
```

Good:

```javascript
const MILLISECONDS_IN_A_DAY = 86_400_000
setTimeout(blastOff, MILLISECONDS_IN_A_DAY)
```

#### 4. Function names should say what they do

Bad:

```javascript
function addToDate(date, month) {
  // ...
}

const date = new Date()

// It's hard to tell from the function name what is added
addToDate(date, 1)
```

Good:

```javascript
function addMonthToDate(month, date) {
  // ...
}

const date = new Date()
addMonthToDate(1, date)
```

#### 5. Don't use names which vary in small ways.

Bad:

```javascript
getActiveUser()
getActiveUsers()
getActiveUserInfo()
```

#### 6. Avoid mental mapping

In most cases, a single letter name is a poor choice. The only exception is a loop counter if its scope is very small.

Bad:

```javascript
const locations = ["Austin", "New York", "San Francisco"]
locations.forEach(l => {
  doStuff()
  doSomeOtherStuff()
  // ...
  // ...
  // ...
  // Wait, what is `l` for again?
  dispatch(l)
})
```

Good:

```javascript
const locations = ["Austin", "New York", "San Francisco"]
locations.forEach(location => {
  doStuff()
  doSomeOtherStuff()
  // ...
  // ...
  // ...
  dispatch(location)
})
```

#### 7. Don't use lower-case "L" or uppercase "o" in names

They can be easily confused with one and zero, respectively.

Bad:

```javascript
const l = 1
const O = 0
```

#### 8. Avoid noise words

For example, never use "variable" in a variable name. At best, it just adds noise. Quite often, it can lie and mislead.

Bad:

```javascript
const nameString = "Anastasiya"
```

Good:

```javascript
const firstName = "Anastasiya"
```

### Conclusion

Names should reveal intent, be easy to read and discuss, be searchable, and shouldn't be confusing and misleading. Quite simple, right? Not always. But that's super important to do it properly.

<section class="separator"><em></em><em></em><em></em></section>

This article is a part of the series [My Principles For Writing Clean JavaScript Code](https://anastasiya.dev/clean-js-code/).

In many examples above, I use the code from [clean-code-javascript](https://github.com/ryanmcdermott/clean-code-javascript). It’s a fantastic resource for learning how to write clean code in JavaScript — highly recommended!

My website is not a standard blog — it's a [digital garden](https://anastasiya.dev/why-digital-garden/), and I constantly add, move around, and remove stuff. So please feel free to join the conversation. All the content is on [github](https://github.com/1itvinka/anastasiya.dev/tree/master/content/blog). Or it might be easier to [discuss it on Twitter](https://mobile.twitter.com/search?q=https://anastasiya.dev/names/).
